Today I'm going to show you guys how you
can automate anything with NADN agent
swarms. This type of multi-agent system
is insanely powerful and you don't need
any prior coding experience to set one
up. So I'm going to be walking over a
few live examples of me using this
executive agent swarm. Then I'm going to
talk about how it works, how I built it,
and I'm also going to give you
everything you need to set this up for
yourself for completely free. So make
sure to stick around and I'll show you
how you can access that. All right, so
I've got Telegram pulled up on my phone
and I'm going to go ahead and send our
agent a message. Please find me four
high performing YouTube videos about N8N
and then send that as an email to Dexter
Morgan. And then finally, also let me
know about the weather today in Chicago.
All right, so I just sent that off and
now our agent's basically going to get
that transcribed audio and now it's
going to decide between its five
different agents which ones to call. So
you can already see it finished up
calling the web agent to get the
weather. It called the contact agent to
get Dexter Morgan's email address. And
now it's calling the YouTube agent in
order to actually find YouTube videos
that are high performing and about nodn.
And so that's the power of an agent
swarm. This main orchestrator parent
agent, all it has to do is understand,
okay, I have five different agents.
Which ones should I use? Rather than
saying, okay, I have like 30 tools.
Which tools do I use? And this framework
makes our results more consistent and
higher quality because each agent is
very specialized. And now that the agent
has all it needs, it decides, okay, now
I can call the email agent to send that
email to Dexter Morgan. So, you can see
it just fired off that email with the
send email tool, and now it's going to
log all of its outputs and respond to us
in Telegram. All right, so it just
finished up. I got my Telegram message
back, but I'm just going to pull it up
on my desktop so you guys can see it as
well. It said, "I have found four high
performing videos about NAN and sent
them in an email to Dexter Morgan. I
also included today's weather in
Chicago, which is overcast clouds with a
temperature of 81°." If I look outside
right now, I can see that it is indeed
overcast clouds. When I hop over to my
email, we can see that we just have one
sent to dextermiami.com
and it has four high performing videos
about Nitn. Each of these include the
title, the channel, a link to the full
video, how many views it has, how many
likes, and how long the actual video is.
So that's awesome. It did what we wanted
it to. It called the right agents, but
not only did it do the right tasks, but
it also logged everything so we can look
and have full visibility. So that's
exactly what's going on in this portion
of the workflow. So if I head over to
this Google sheet, you can see that we
have the time of the run, we have the
inputs, we have the outputs, we have the
actions that were taken, and then also
how many tokens were used up. So in the
actions, this is really cool because we
can see first it called the contact
agent and it basically got Dexter's
email, which was dextermiami.com.
Then it went to the web agent to get the
weather in Chicago and it got the
weather. Then it used the YouTube agent
to find four high performing YouTube
videos about NAND. And then finally, it
called the email agent to send that
email to Dexter Morgan. And we can see
it called different agents. It had
different prompts it had to run through.
And it costed us a total here of 5,000
tokens using GPT4.1 Mini. So that's a
cool little system. So you can see what
actions your agents are calling and
stuff like that. But let's head back
over to the workflow and let me start to
break down how this actually works. So
if you've seen my channel before, you
may have come across this video where I
built an ultimate personal assistant,
which is kind of similar to what we're
looking at today. The main difference
here is that Naden just released an
update which allows us to keep our
agents all in the same workflow rather
than in this version where the ultimate
assistant calls this subworkflow and we
can't really see what's going on and
this is basically the workflow it calls
because of this update which was like
1.103. We can now keep all of our agents
in the same place and we can visually
watch everything happen on the same
screen. And what's cool about having a
swarm framework where we have different
agents for each different task, the main
one only has to think about, okay, if
the user wants something to do with
email, I'm not going to worry about
which tools. I'm just going to send it
to the email agent and the email agent
will figure it all out because as you
can see here, every single agent has its
own brain. They each have their own chat
models and that means that they also
each have their own system prompts. So,
we're able to split up all the system
prompts and make each agent's job very
specific and increase the quality of
their outputs. It also gives us the
flexibility to have different chat
models for different agents. In this
case, I'm using GPT 4.1 Mini for all of
them. But if something's really simple,
maybe like grabbing contact information.
We could switch this out for a cheaper
model like Google Flash. And if you
notice that your emails sound too much
like AI and you want them to be written
better, you could maybe switch out to
something like a more expensive
anthropic model. So, not only do you
have more flexibility, but like I said,
higher quality outputs. And so, if
you're thinking to yourself, okay, so
there's six different agents, there's
six different memories. They're not
going to work very cohesively as a team.
Well, you'd be wrong. What we can do is
we can have all six agents hooked up to
the same memory. In this case, I don't,
just because each of these sub agents
jobs are super specific to like a
one-time task, like sending an email,
creating an event, doing research. So,
they don't really need full context. But
as you can see, each agent has the
ability to add memory, just like our
main agent right here has memory. And
the way that memory works is it's stored
based on a session ID. And I don't want
to get too technical here, but basically
think of a session ID like a contact. In
your phone, you have different contacts.
And each contact you have different
conversations. So, as long as we have
all of the agents hooked up to the same
session ID for their memory, they'll all
be looking at the same conversation when
they're taking action. So depending on
the situation, your agents may need to
all be linked together with some sort of
session ID for memory. But in this case
where each agent is basically just
getting a task, doing the job, and then
moving on with their day, we don't need
them to be linked together. But the
reason I wanted to bring that up is
because in the past when you wanted to
pass over a variable like a session ID
from main agent to a sub agent, you'd
have to pass it through as a separate
variable. But here, it's really easy
because everything's in the same
workflow. I could easily add a memory to
the email agent and all I'd have to do
is reference the actual Telegram trigger
chat ID that I was using in the earlier
memory. So now that that's linked up, we
would basically have our email sub agent
and our main agent always looking at the
same conversation. So they're basically
linked up. Let's do one more example
that's even a little more complex to
show you guys how the agent handles it.
All right, so our agent's listening. I'm
going to send it another message in
Telegram. Please get my YouTube video
ideas from the database. do some
research on them with Tavi and then send
that research brief in an email to
Michael Scott and then make a calendar
event for today at 4M to go over that
research with Michael Scott. All right,
so I'm going to send that off. This is a
pretty loaded task, so we'll see how the
agent handles it. It's going to have to
call multiple different agents here. You
can see it's calling the YouTube agent
to get our ideas. It called the contact
agent to get Michael Scott's contact
information. And now it's calling the
web agent and it's going to do some
research on those YouTube video ideas. I
think I told it to use Tavi, but it
probably transcribed it a little bit
poorly, so it decided to use Perplexity.
But that's completely fine. The agent
made the decision and it's going to do
some research on our YouTube video
ideas. Either way, it's finishing up
that research and now it's going to call
the email agent and the calendar agent
to make that calendar event and send off
that email. Okay, so it just finished
calling the calendar agent and
everything's finished up. I'm going to
go ahead and switch over to our email
and we'll take a quick look. Okay, so
here's our sent email to
mike@cratescott.com.
We have three different YouTube video
ideas and you can see inbox to action,
autoscrape leads, YouTube content
engine. These are the video ideas that
existed already in my YouTube video
ideas database. And for each of these
videos, what it did is it used
perplexity to research them and
basically helps me figure out how I can
make these different workflows for a
YouTube video. And if you remember, we
asked the agent to create a calendar
event as well with Michael Scott. So, if
I go over in my calendar, we should see
that we have review research brief on
YouTube video ideas at 4 p.m. And we
added Mike at Great Scott as an attendee
to the event. And of course, the final
piece of the puzzle here is that the
agent should have logged everything in
the Google sheet. So, if we come over
here, we can see we had a new run at
11:36. We have the input, we have the
output, we have the tools that were
called, which in this case was all five
agents were used in this run. And then
this one costed us a total of 8,500
tokens. So, I don't want to waste the
whole video with demoing all the
different use cases. is I hope you guys
can see how cool and how powerful this
agent swarm is. And now what we're going
to do is step by step build one
together, just a really mini version of
this one so that you guys can get a
taste of how you can come in here and
build your own executive agent swarm.
All right, so here we are in a fresh
blank canvas and what I'm going to do is
hit tab and I'm going to grab in an AI
agent. So here we have our AI agent and
the first thing we need to do is connect
a chat model which is basically going to
be the brain for the AI agent. And so
what I like to do is I like to use open
router. So if you go to open router.ai,
AI. Go ahead and make an account. And in
the top right, what you're going to want
to do is go to your keys. In here,
you'll be able to create an API key,
which is kind of a fancy word for a
password. And what you're going to do is
create your API key. Name it whatever
you want. And then once you create that,
you're going to get this unique value,
which you will copy. Once you copy that
value, you're going to go into N, add a
chat model. You're going to scroll down
to open router. And all you need to do
is create a new account, and you're
going to paste in your API key right
here. Once you've saved, it should go
green. And basically this tells us that
our agent has access to some sort of
brain. Just make sure in open router you
have billing information inserted
otherwise you won't be able to use it.
And so now if I click into this node I
can basically choose which chat model I
want to use. And as you can see there
are a ton. So that's why I like to use
open router. So from here what we're
going to do is add our first agent which
is going to be an email agent. I would
basically add this agent as a tool. And
now what we can do rather than what we
used to do in this version of the
Ultimate Assistant where we called a sub
workflow as a tool. What we're able to
do is literally just type an AI agent
and we can add an AI agent as a tool. So
we have a whole agent baked in right
here and we're going to have to connect
a chat model. We'll have to do all the
other things. So now this main agent is
basically just in charge of this sub
agent. So once again, real quick, I'm
going to add a brain to this guy. So I'm
going to scroll down to open router and
we already have our credentials set up.
So it's that easy. So, like I said,
we're going to make this agent an email
agent. So, I'm just going to name it
email agent. I'm going to put a
description in here that says email
agent to take action with email. And
then what I'm going to do for the user
message is I'm just going to hit this
button right here that lets the model
define this parameter.
What this means is that when the main
agent decides, okay, I'm going to use
the email agent, it's basically going to
say, here's what you do. And that is
what's happening right here in the user
message. And just to show you guys an
example of that to make it make a little
more sense, we had this main agent,
right? And it decided to call the
YouTube agent. And so when it called the
YouTube agent, it filled in the user
message with get my YouTube video ideas
from the database. So it's basically
just the main agent telling this sub
agent what to do. And if it hasn't quite
stuck yet, let's also look at the
contact agent. The main agent said,
"Okay, I'm going to use you, Mr. Contact
agent, and what I want you to do is get
contact information for Michael Scott."
Okay, so hopefully that all makes sense
now. And now what we have to do is just
connect an email tool to our email
agent. So I'm going to click on tool.
I'm going to type in Gmail tool. And now
we just need to set this thing up as
well. So if you haven't connected to any
of your Google tools before, I'm going
to link a video right up here where I
explain how that works. But then once
you finish that, come back here and
we'll set up this Gmail tool. So similar
to what we just did with that user
message, I'm basically going to let the
AI agent decide who is it going to,
what's the subject, and what is the
actual body message. I'm also real quick
going to change the email type to text
and I'm going to add an option down at
the bottom which lets us turn off the
NADN attribution at the bottom of an
email. And it's that simple. We already
have this Gmail tool set up. So what I'm
going to do is I'm going to chat with
this agent to see if it's able to send
an email. And one thing I want to call
out to you guys is that we haven't put
any system prompt in either of the
agents. So this is just to reiterate how
easy it is to build this stuff nowadays.
When you start to build out more agents
and more tools, you will have to system
prompt it. As you can see in this main
agent, it has a big system prompt right
here where we explain here's your job,
here are the tools you have, here are
your instructions. And then every single
sub agent as well has a prompt. So this
email sub aent, we basically tell it
here are your tools. Here's when to use
each one. But like I said, for
simplicity sake, just to show you guys
how we start off building this kind of
stuff, I don't even have any system
prompt in any of these agents yet. So,
I'm going to open up the chat and I'm
going to say send an email to
nate@acample.com
asking him if he's having a good day.
So, once we fire this off, we're going
to see the main agent decide I need to
use email agent. Email agent decides I
need to use tool. Although, we can see
we got an error with this tool. So, let
me check in on what happened. We can see
that it's red. I'll click into here and
basically what it says is that the email
address is invalid. So the AI model
decided to fill in the two with just
Nate rather than Nate@acample.com.
So now we know it made a mistake. Let's
add a little bit of a system prompt in
there. So I have two options. I could
basically come into the email agent. I
could add an option, add a system
message, and I could say, "Hey, by the
way, whenever you're sending an email to
someone, it basically needs to be a
valid email address." But an even
simpler way to do that is basically come
back into the tool, go right here and
add a description to the two field where
I can just tell the agent this must be a
valid email address. So honestly, I
believe that this simple fix will be
enough. And let's test it out again. So
there's a little arrow above this
message. I'm just going to hit that
which basically sends it off again. And
now we'll see if the email agent can get
it right. Okay, so I just figured out
what's actually going wrong. The email
agent isn't messing up. the main agent's
messing up because what happens is the
main agent is getting this message that
says to send an email to
nate@acample.com and if we click on the
logs we can see what it does and we can
see here that it basically calls on the
email agent tool and it passes in as the
input hi Nate I just wanted to check in
so what happened here is the main agent
decided I want to make the email rather
than saying okay Mr. email agent, you do
all this work. So, all we have to do is
probably system prompt the main agent to
tell it you don't need to take action.
You don't need to send emails. You just
need to delegate the task to the right
tool. So, I'm going to add a system
message and basically just say exactly
that. So, here you can see I gave it
three short sentences about what its
role should be. And once again, we're
going to save this and just try again.
All right. So, I just shot off the exact
same message. We didn't change anything
else. And now you can see that it went
through. And I know this may be a little
bit overwhelming or a little bit
confusing at the moment if this is one
of your first agents that you've built,
but once again, let me just walk through
what just happened. So, we'll click into
the main agent and we're going to go to
the agent logs. When you read through
the logs, this is basically how it
works. The first thing that it did is it
calls its brain in order to read the
system message to understand what to do
next. Once it read that, it called the
email agent. And this time, what it did
is it sent over this message to the
email agent. send an email to
nate@example.com asking him if he's
having a good day. So now we can see
that the main agent isn't creating stuff
itself. It's just delegating the task
which is exactly what should be
happening in an agent swarm. From there,
the email agent then uses its brain,
decides, okay, I need to create an
email, and then it passes over these
parameters to its send Gmail tool, which
are here's who it's going to, here's the
subject, and then here's the actual
body. And then basically that gets
communicated back to the main agent, and
then the main agent responds to us. So,
there's really three key things that you
need to master in order to build agent
swarms. The first one is going to be
understanding how to read through the
agent logs. That's super super important
for debugging and making sure that your
agents are doing what you told them to
do. So you guys just saw me basically
run into an error, try to fix it. It
didn't work. So what I did was I looked
at the logs to figure out where exactly
in this chain of command is something
breaking. So the more experience you get
with reading agent logs and
understanding what's going on, how data
is being passed between different
agents, the better you'll get at
understanding how you can build things
that work. Now the second thing is going
to be prompting. Because what happens is
it's going to work fine when you have
one agent and one tool, but as you scale
them up, you're going to have multiple
more things to include in your prompt.
For example, with this guy, we have we
have one main agent and we tell it,
okay, you are basically an orchestrator
delegator agent and you have five agents
to work with. It understands that now
and it does its job pretty well, but I
wasn't able to just throw the prompt in
and have it work like magic. What you're
going to really have to do is understand
the aspect of reactive prompting. I
actually did a full video about reactive
prompting and I'll include this entire
PDF along with all the other resources
that you'll get to create the system,
but this goes over some really key
things about basically debugging one
error at a time, scaling up slowly,
adding tools one at a time in order to
make sure that everything's working
rather than basically throwing in 20
tools and a huge system prompt at once
and hitting run. You won't know exactly
where things are going wrong. And then
the final element to understand is the
tool calling. Basically, all of these
different tools, what we're doing is
we're letting the AI model decide how to
fill in the parameters. So, to give you
guys some more context here, what
happens with like a send email tool is
the AI model decides who's it going to,
what's the subject, and what's the body
message. So, as you can see in this
Gmail tool, we let the AI model decide
who's it going to, what's the subject,
and what's the body message. So, if we
wanted to add something else like a
calendar agent, we'd basically add
another tool. We'd add an AI agent as a
tool and we would call this one a
calendar agent. So we gave it a
description, we gave it a name, and then
what I'm going to do once again is let
the main agent decide what message this
calendar agent receives. So we let the
AI model decide that. Now we would
basically need to give the calendar
agent access to a brain once again. So I
can actually drag this little thing into
a different brain. So now the email
agent and calendar agent use the same
chat model. And then what we can do is
add a calendar tool. So, if I go to the
tool button right here and I type in
Google calendar, we'll grab this guy and
we will basically do a create event
operation, I would choose the calendar
that I want it to access. And then we
have a start time and an end time. And
what I'm able to do is basically just
say, okay, AI model, you're going to
decide when this event's going to start
and end. Okay, so I just asked it to
create a calendar event for today at 1
p.m. for lunch. You can see the agent
called the calendar agent. You can see
the calendar agent called the create
event tool. everything looked like it
worked. So, if I go over to my calendar,
we don't see the event. So, this is
where you need to understand, okay,
things look like it worked, but I'm not
seeing the actual result that I was
looking for. Now, what I need to do is I
need to look at the tool. I need to look
at the different agent logs and see what
actually happened. And then we'll figure
out where things went wrong. So, that's
exactly what I'm going to do with you
guys. And I'm going to start by looking
at the tool to see what actually
happened in our Google calendar. So, if
I click into the tool, what you can see
happened is the agent created an event
for 1 p.m., but it made it for April
27th of 2024, which was, you know, over
a year ago. So, now I would think to
myself, okay, why did it do that? And to
understand why it did that, I would go
to the main agent. I would click on the
logs and I would just start to go in
order. So, first of all, it calls its
brain. And then from there, it decides,
okay, I need to use the calendar agent.
when it calls the calendar agent, it
says, "Create a calendar event for lunch
today at 1 p.m." So now I'm thinking to
myself, okay, the agent doesn't actually
know what day is today. And that's
exactly why when it goes to fill out the
parameters for the calendar tool, it
makes it for a year ago. A lot of times
when I'm building things and I'm trying
to figure out what's going wrong and how
to fix it, this is going to sound really
obvious, but I promise you it's a really
really good way to think is just think
about if I face this problem in real
life as a human doing this manually.
What would I do? And so in this case,
what I would do is I would look at my
phone and figure out, okay, I was told
to make an event for today, what day is
today? I would look at my phone, I'd
realize that today is, you know, July
25th. And then I would basically make
the event for July 25th.
So, the way we're going to fix that here
is I am going to give both agents access
to today's current date and time. And to
do that, I would come into the system
prompt of this main AI agent. I'm going
to make sure it's an expression so we
can put in a live variable. And I'm just
going to say today's date is colon two
curly braces and then we have a little
variable right here, dollar sign now.
And all that does is it gives the agent
the current date and time no matter what
time you're using it. And so I'm just
going to copy this little sentence that
I made. I'm going to go into the
calendar agent and I'm going to give it
the exact same information. Make sure
it's an expression and just say today's
date is blank.
So now that I've saved that, if I open
up the chat and I run this exact same
message, I'm pretty sure it should be
able to do this correctly. It decides
which agent to use. The agent decides
which tool to use. And now if we go into
our Google calendar, we can see we have
an event here today at 1 p.m. although
we don't have a title. So same thing I
would basically think about okay why is
there no title let me go look at this
actual Google calendar tool I can see
that the agent is automatically
populating two parameters the start time
and the end time but there's no
parameter here for title so what I would
do is I would want to add an additional
field I would basically come down here
to summary I think summary is how it
shows up in Google calendar as a title
and then I would just let the AI agent
decide what's the summary so now that
I've saved that and we know that the
agent's going to send over start time
end time and title. I can send off this
query that's asking it to make an event
for 6 p.m. for dinner. The agent's
calling the right tool. And now we can
go ahead and check our calendar. And we
can see we have an event for 6 p.m.
called dinner. Okay. So now we've
basically built out this mini agent
swarm where we have a main orchestrator
agent and we have an email agent and a
calendar agent. What would be next from
here is you'd start to scale up these
agents by giving them access to
different email tools and different
calendar tools. But I've made it really
easy for you guys because what you can
do is you can leverage all of the tools
and system prompts in this agent swarm
that I've already built. You could
basically come into the email agent and
you could copy this exact system prompt
and then put it into your email agent.
You could also then copy all of these
tools, go into your workflow and paste
them in and then just drag and drop and
connect these tools to your own agent.
Now, one thing to note if you do take
this route is that within these tools,
because I built these a while ago, what
I have is these little from AI
functions. And I just wanted to show you
guys that these from AI functions are
the exact same thing as what we set up
together where we click the button to
let the model define.
They're doing the exact same thing.
Naden just made an update where they
made it even easier than typing in a
from ai function. So whether you want to
set them up yourself and use that button
or you want to just copy in these tools
that I already have with the from AI
functions, don't worry about it. They're
doing the exact same things. Real quick
guys, while I'm editing this video, I
thought of something that I wanted to
make sure I mentioned. These agent
swarms are super cool and end is doing a
great job at making it really, really
easy and more accessible to people to
build these agents that call other
agents. But ultimately, I think that the
majority of automations that you can
build for yourself or for your business
or whatever it is don't need to be
agents and don't need to be agent
swarms. There's a big difference between
building an AI agent and building an AI
workflow. And I think that the majority
of business problems can be solved with
a really good AI workflow. The
difference here is that with a workflow,
we're still using AI. We're still using
tools, but we're basically controlling
the exact flow. So, we know that the
process goes 1 2 3 4 5 6. And there's
literally no way for the process to go 1
4 2 6. It has to follow our exact
instructions every time. So if you're
trying to automate a deterministic and
predictable process that follows a
step-by-step guide every single time,
you want to go with a workflow. Agents
are really cool because they use AI as a
reasoning and a decision-making aspect.
And that's when we have processes that
are unpredictable, non-deterministic,
and we need that assistance from an AI.
So, I would encourage you to think
about, am I building something that
needs to be an agent or am I building an
agent because I think it's cooler. I've
gotten caught up in the hype of AI
agents and built agents when they could
have been workflows for sure. So, I just
wanted to throw that out there real
quick. If you want to watch a full
video, I've done a full video on this
exact topic, which I will link right up
here. But, let's get right back to the
main video. So, now I need to tell you
guys about how you can actually access
this and the agent log sheet right here
that you see in order to basically
duplicate this exact system. What you're
going to do is go to my free school
community. The link for that is down in
the description. And once you get in
here, you can get all of my resources
from every single YouTube video I've
made for completely free. You'll click
on YouTube resources or you'll search
for the title of the video using the
search bar. And once you find that post
for this video, you'll basically click
on it. And what you'll have right here
is a JSON file. This JSON file can be
downloaded and then it can be imported
into your own annst instance. And when
you import it, you'll basically just see
this right here. Once you import it,
you'll be on your own to set up your own
credentials and connect to your own
Google suites and everything like that.
But there will be a setup guide as a
sticky note right over here and it will
walk you through everything that you
need to go set up. And then I also said
that I would be giving you guys this
Google sheet template so that you can
plug it in and start tracking your agent
actions as well. So there will be a link
to this in the post I make in my free
school community with the template. And
I'll also include this attachment as a
PDF if you want to go ahead and learn
more about reactive prompting. So, with
all of those resources and, you know,
watching a ton of other videos on my
channel, you'll be on your way to
setting up your first agent swarm, even
if you don't really have a technical
background. And in the process of
setting up your swarm, if you need free
tech support and you're looking to take
your learnings a little bit deeper, then
check out my paid community. The link
for that is also down in the
description. We've got a great community
of members in here that are building
with NADN every single day. And like I
said, it's free tech support. So, as
soon as you get stuck, you can make a
post in here. You'll have members
helping you out. I'll help you out and
people that are officially on my support
specialist team. We've also got a
classroom section with two full courses.
Agent zero is the foundations of AI
automations for beginners and then 10
hours to 10 seconds where you learn how
to identify, design, and build
time-saving automations. So, I'd love to
see you guys in these communities. But
that is going to do it for today. If you
enjoyed the video or you learned
something new, please give it a like.
Definitely helps me out a ton. And as
always, I appreciate you guys making it
to the end of the video. I'll see you on
the next one. Thanks, guys.